your third gonna do them we've talked
about this a little bit before but as
you have to exercise on a daily basis
you've got to do it we've talked about
the difference between exercise and
activity and you want to increase both
time is not magically going to appear
for any of us we are all extremely busy
people so again they can like a thin
person I don't have time well you're
right you might not but you're going to
have to make time that means stealing it
from somewhere else but if you want the
benefits you've got to do it it takes to
get those remember tell yourself it's
what I do Harvard again says 60 minutes
a day to prevent weight gain 60 to 90 to
keep it off take it off okay gotta do
them number four we've got to drink
water all day long except of course as
you know when you're eating meals most
of the books say don't drink water 30
minutes before 30 minutes after your
meal the reason being you either fill up
with water and then you don't get enough
nutrition or it makes it easier to push
the food through and then you get more
food in here in your stomach you don't
want any good so don't drink the water
with your meals don't drink anything
with your meals which might be hard for
people to do but again which is more
important keeping your weight off and
losing it or drinkin with your meals so
drink water all day long because it's
extremely good for your wet health and
it's very good for your skin so number
four is drink water number five plan
your meals you know they say plan your
work and work your plan this is where
this comes in most of us are not in the
habit of planning our meals alright
you've gone on diets before and you've
had to have the certain foods at the
certain times and you know this is not a
diet this is a way of life so you're
going to have to make plans you know
some of the things that you can do our
maybe on Sunday prepare food ahead of
time for example every Sunday I cook
five chicken breast in my crock pot
every day I know i'm going to have one
of those chicken breasts it's already
prepared it's already there i can take
it to work cansu
doesn't take a whole lot to plan or
prepare that take you know tickling me
cottage cheese to work put it in refrig
there click ahead of time clip plan
prepare remember you do whatever it
takes two things to remember in your
plan are not grazing and not eating
sliders alright grazing means you eat
all day long you can eat little bits of
food all day long and end up with a lot
of calories and in some ways this is
bariatric surgery lifestyle afterwards
is a very low calorie diet because if
you're eating three cups of food per day
that's not a lot of calories and you can
cheat very easily by eating sliders if
you've had the Lap Band which is food
that's just going to slide right through
or you can graze all day long so you
have to work at changing those habits
and be coming really aware of what your
habits are okay number six gotta do
number six another one people hate this
but I tell you this is the number one
way to keep your weight off after you've
had surgery and it's to keep a food
diary i swear i could pay people to do
this and they still wouldn't do it but
if you want to keep your weight off
accept the fact that this is the best
way to do it and then do it there are a
lot of reasons to keep a weight journal
or a food journal excuse me one of the
things that you do is you keep track of
what you're eating which keeps you
accountable so here's kind of how it
goes when you have the surgery here keep
track your weight and your weights going
to start here and your weight is going
to go down down down down if you're
keeping it on a graph at some point
you're going to get to where you don't
lose any more weight but your goal then
is to keep it steady you don't want it
to creep back up if you find that your
weight starts to creep back up which
remember doesn't creep back up you're
doing something differently but you can
look back at your food journal and say
what am i eating differently that I am
now gaining weight alright so keeping a
food journal also helps keep you
motivated because you can see oh my gosh
look what I'm doing this is
wrkn it keeps you it keeps you building
your confidence make sure you give
yourself success boosts along the way
not in terms of food but give yourself
get yourself a massage or do something
to pamper yourself just make sure that
you do this keeping a food journal does
not have to be a big deal a lot of
people now just keep them on their cell
phone as soon as you need go ahead and
put punch it what you've had there are a
lot of online food diaries as well make
sure that you keep a food diary gotta do
it all right number seven got to do it
number seven keep an exercise diary
again for a lot of the same reasons that
you keep a food diary it helps increase
your motivation increases you're
confident you can reward yourself when
you've done consistent exercise for a
long time again the reward is a food
also if you're doing this it helps you
learn to talk back to your stink and
thinking and put into place your new
healthy thinking you know what I don't
feel like exercising I got to do it I
don't feel like writing it down it's
what I do all right get yourself a
personal trainer it's a great way to
maintain accountability and to have some
encouragement we all need this
encouragement along the way it can be
somebody who hire from the gym or it can
be a good brand or take your spouse your
kids they love to do that stuff with you
also it's a good idea to get yourself a
pedometer studies have shown that people
who wear a pedometer actually take more
steps during the day just because
they're kind of conscientious about it
also i forgot to mention all of us
underestimate what we eat by at least
twenty percent heavy people are shown to
underestimate what they eat by more than
that so that's another reason for
keeping up from journal so the food and
the exercise journals are very very
important all right number eight this
one surprise me and i learned this at
the harvard conference and have read
much about it since then but getting
adequate sleep is got to do a number
eight there's clear research that shows
a connection between getting adequate
sleep and maintaining a healthy weight
so make sure that you don't take all
your time to do all these other good
from your sleep all right number nine
utilize a healthy support system like I
said before you're the only one that can
do this for you ultimately but you can't
do it alone and asking people for help
is something many many people are very
hard I have a very hard time doing but
it's something you're going to want to
do your support system is more important
than i can tell you hey works because
people go to AAA and they get support
for people have been down that same Road
so you're going to have to use the local
support group meeting you're going to
have to go on those locals those online
support groups because you can go there
24 hours a day if you're having a hard
time and you're discouraged or you just
feel like you could heat the house at
that moment right right in there you
know what I'm having a hard time what
did you guys do when you came to this
and you will get people responding with
you it serves as a distraction it gets
you through those hard times it
motivates you get you back on course so
you've got to have a lot of support get
to know the people at the support group
meetings get phone numbers use them you
know do stuff with them and where that
your support system is not made up of
people who will coddle you in other
words sometimes your friends or
relatives will say it's okay you know
it's okay if you just have this it's
okay if you just have that it's not all
right don't let them sabotage you in the
guise of being a support to you all
right you want your support people to be
people that will hold you accountable
and expect a lot of you because you're
going to want to expect a lot of
yourself